---
layout: doc
permalink: /en/geobadges/editor_1
lang: en
title: GeoBadge Instructions: OSM Editor I
category: geobadges
published: true
---

# Instructions for obtaining the OpenStreetMap Editor I Geobadge

At the end of this course, you should be able to make basic edits in OpenStreetMap.

This course begins with an overview of the OpenStreetMap website and continues with instructions on how to add your features to OpenStreetMap.

## Getting familiar with the OpenStreetMap website

To get familiar with the OpenStreetMap website, take the walk-through over at [LearnOSM](https://github.com/hotosm/learnosm/blob/gh-pages/_posts/en/beginner/0200-12-27-start-osm.md). Return here when you get to the ['Adding Your First Points'](http://learnosm.org/en/beginner/start-osm/#adding-your-first-points) section.

### How geographic features are represented on a map
Everything on the map is represented by one of three shapes: either points, lines, and polygons. You would map a lake as an area to accurately reflect its spatial extent. On the other hand, roads and rivers are typically mapped as lines, due to their linear nature. You would typically use points to map single shops, a street tree, a utility pole, and other similar features.

#### Points
A point can be used to represent a simple feature such as a shop, a tree, a fire hydrant, or your local coffee shop. Return to the [Point digitzing instructions](http://learnosm.org/en/beginner/id-editor/#adding-points) on the LearnOSM site. Follow the instructions to digitize and save a point feature in your neighborhood. 

#### Lines (or Ways)
Lines are used to represent linear features such as roads, rivers, paths, and runways. Follow the instructions for [Drawing Lines](http://learnosm.org/en/beginner/id-editor/#drawing-lines) on the LearnOSM site.

#### Polygons (or closed ways)
Polygons are used to represent area features or shapes, such as building footprints, boundaries, land uses, and so on. Follow the instructions for [Drawing shapes, or polygons](http://learnosm.org/en/beginner/id-editor/#drawing-shapes-polygons) on the LearnOSM site.

### Save your work
Save your work after you've created point, line, and polygon features. Click the 'Save' button, enter your changeset comment, and commit your changes. A changeset comment should be a brief description of what you mapped. For example, "Added grocery, alley, and buildings in my neighborhood." For details, see the instructions for saving work on [LearnOSM](http://learnosm.org/en/beginner/id-editor/#saving-your-changes).

## Copy the Changeset ID to claim your badge.
In order to claim your badge you'll need to supply documentation. In this case, you must submit a link to your just-saved changeset. 

1. Log into OpenStreetMap. 
2. In the upper right-hand corner of the screen, click on your profile, and select, 'My Profile' from the dropdown.
3. On your profile page, click 'My Edits'. A list of your changesets will appear down the left-hand side of the screen.
4. Click on your changeset to review.
5. In your browser's address bar, copy the URL for your changeset.
6. Navigate to the [GeoBadges](http://geobadges.org) and open the OSM Editor I badge.
7. To claim credit, click on the 'Link' icon (looks like a chain) and paste the URL into the text box and click 'Claim Credit'.


