---
layout: doc
permalink: /en/intro/welcome
lang: en
title: Why Teach OSM in the Classroom
category: intro
cover: "yes"
weight: 5
published: true
---

### Why OpenStreetMap in the Classroom?

Mapping has applicability across many fields and communities of interest. Students of Public Policy, Public Health, International Affairs and Sociology, to name but a few, can use mapping to document, archive, plan and contribute to both local and international initiatives.  

Global coverage for OSM is not complete, but is growing daily. Many cities (Washington DC being one of the first), have decided to make their geospatial data publically available and accessible, and have uploaded their geospatial libraries en masse to the OSM platform. The vast majority of mapping on the open platform comes from individuals, or small groups of individuals, such as community groups.  OSM was used extensively during the response to the Haitian earthquake in 2010. In the first month following the earthquake over 600 individuals traced roads and infrastructure to create what became the default base map for first responders and aid agencies working the country . What begun as a disaster response has become a stable community of contributors, a community that continue to develop the Haitian map for sustainable development and capacity building within the community. 

OSM has also become a popular avenue for marginalized communities to literally “put themselves on the map”. One excellent example is the Map Kiberia initiative, a community project (using OSM) to map one of Africa’s largest slums, home to more than half a million people, in Nairobi, Kenya. Its street and building infrastructure (most of it informal and unplanned) cannot be found on any of the other major mapping platforms (including Google Earth). International visibility is an important step toward recognition for communities like Kibera, but more importantly, a mapping platform allows for planning and social organization at the community level.

### OpenStreetMap as a Community Development Tool
- Open Source means accessibility for everyone
- Updates and corrections are easily made to OpenStreetMap
- Citizen mappers give visibility to features not found on ‘official maps’
- Mapping parties and editathons are two ways we develop communities
- Editathon: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Editathon - http://wiki.openstreetmap.org/wiki/Mapping_parties

### Reasons to use OpenStreetMap as Tool to teach Geography
Direct learning - Young adults gain direct experience of space, place, location, and navigation.
- Geography at a 1:1 scale - Sometimes, nothing beats a street survey on foot
"The terrain is the map”
- Nurture an understanding how to read the landscape
Provides meaningful engagement for children that can broaden academic & career options
- History-shaping events often happen at certain places for reasons of geography.
- Contributing to OSM, through site surveys, editing, and meeting other citizens helps us understand geographic processes that underpin social events.
Establish positive relationships with other mappers in the community
- Collaborate with your fellow citizens
- You share observations about your community
Opportunities to engage in ongoing community service projects and service learning engagements
- Contribute to humanitarian relief efforts through Humanitarian OpenStreetMap Team (HOT)
- Use MapRoulette ‘micro-tasking’ to help improve map quality
Enrich the educational experience of students everywhere
- An open platform, accessible and available
- Mapping projects encourage collaboration and teamwork
- Students learn how to think about geographic features, how to model their world, how to describe (‘tag’) it appropriately
Nurture ’s natural inquiries into their world