---
layout: doc
permalink: /es/workflow/
lang: es
title: How to build your workflow
category: workflow
cover: "yes"
published: true
---

How to build your workflow
==========================

In this section, "How to build your workflow" educators are invited to build their own OSM assignment using tried and tested steps from the "workflows" developed by educators who have been long-time users of OpenStreetMap. Individual instructors can use the materials provided verbatim and as-is, or, they can take and modify these materials and tailor them to create mapping projects for their particular discipline and curricular needs.  

In these following sections we will show how to best identify and create your mappingn project. We show how to assign work and manage the mapping process. And we show how to evaluate data quality and grade a mapping assignment.  


## The Assignment Workflow 
There is a lot of preparation behind a successful mapping assignment. Careful consideration is needed for the selection of a study area, assigning equitable tasks to those students, and deciding if there is to be a formal grading element to this exercise. Taking time to plan the assignment is crucial to a successful outcome.  

Developing a workflow for an OSM class assignment can be broken down into 3 essential steps and 2 optional depending on your project needs.  

These are:  

1. Choosing where to map and what to map
2. Assigning tasks to participants
3. Conducting training for participants
4. Mapping in the field with Field Papers
5. Grading, validation, and assessing quality


The first three steps should be common to most assignment workflows, whether the mapping exercise takes place in a traditional classroom setting, or not. Step 4 depends on whether there is a local field mapping component possible/expected, and Step 5 suggests approaches for grading in a traditional classroom setting; again optional. 
