---
layout: doc
permalink: /en/workflow/workflow3/
lang: en
title: "STEP 3 - Conducting Training"
category: workflow
published: true
---

# STEP 3: Conducting Training

## Develop a training schedule

It is important that students are comfortable with the assignment and the applications they will use.  Two class sessions are often sufficient to accomplish this.  

Session 1: Begin with an introductory lecture on the assignment. Brief the students on the topic background, it's goals and objectives. First, introduce the group to tracing using the iD editor. We have found that it is a good idea to have students begin with simple tracing close to home. 

If you are working with a partner, have them give a short presentation on their overarching project, and the role the students will play in it's completion.  This will give greater context and adds gravitas to the assignment.  
If time permits, you can introduce students to the tasking manager. 

Session 2: This should consist of hands-on tracing on the designated task (with an introduction to the Tasking Manager), gaining experience with the in-browser editor, and fielding questions.  After this class the students should be comfortable enough to work individually.

Mapathon: Finally, host a ‘mapathon’, if possible.  This event is meant to be fun, social and a chance for those involved to come together and work through their assignment.  As an incentive for participation, offer food and drinks if your facility/organization can support it. You can even set up a music play list.

## Student Training Guide
This is a sample presentation that can be modified to incorporate the location and parameters of your particular assessment. It hits all the key points in account creation, tracing, tagging, and tracking work in the TaskingManager.
Please download the presentation <a href="/files/SAMPLE - OSM Mapathon - Student Training Guide 2014.pptx">here</a>.

### Student Training Video
This particular video highlights a class project for Harare, Zimbabwe. Please feel free to use this video as a teaching aide.
Please note, this video is using the HOT Tasking Manager, rather than the TeachOSM Tasking Manager, but they function in exactly the same manner. 

Student training Guide on YouTube

<iframe width="640" height="360" src="//www.youtube.com/embed/cnXhWb4wlOE?list=UU5nRx9mgwlKR6H7_RguizxQ" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

### Student Tracing Guide
This guide was developed by USAID in 2013, to support students participating in the Kathmandu OSM Project at The George Washington University. Though the examples and screenshots are specific to infrastructure in that city, the lessons on tracing technique, when presented with building infrastructure of varying density, are applicable in many cases.

<a href="/files/sample-tracing-guide-kathmandu.pdf">Sample Tracing Guide</a>

### Student Workflow Cheat sheet
This 'cheat sheet' is a one page synopsis of the steps necessary to complete the assignment.  This handout is optional, but many students have found it to be a useful aide, until they are confident with the workflow.  

<a href="/files/gwu-mapathon-cheatsheet.pdf">Cheat Sheet</a>
