---
layout: doc
permalink: /en/workflow/
lang: en
title: How to build your workflow
category: workflow
cover: "yes"
published: true
---

In this section, "How to build your workflow" educators are invited to build their own OSM assignment using tried and tested steps from the "workflows" of educators who've used OSM in the past.

Individual instructors can use the materials provided verbatim, or, they can take and modify these materials to develop assignments for their particular discipline and curricular needs.

In the next section we will instruct how to best identify, assign, manage and grade (if applicable) a mapping assignment.

## The Assignment Workflow 
There is a lot of preparation behind a successful mapping assignment. 

In the section, "How to build your workflow" educators are invited to build their own OSM assignment using tried and tested steps from the "workflows" of educators who've used OSM in the past. 

Individual instructors can use the materials provided verbatim, or, they can take and modify these materials to develop assignments for their particular discipline and curricular needs. 

In the next section we will instruct how to best identify, assign, manage and grade (if applicable) a mapping assignment.

Selection of a study area, determining if there is sufficient mapping work for your students in this area, assigning equitable tasks to those students, and deciding if there is to be a formal grading element to this exercise. 

Taking time to plan the assignment is crucial to a successful outcome. 

Developing a workflow for an OSM class assignment can be broken down into 5 essential steps. 

These are:

1. Choosing where to map
2. Assigning work to participants
3. Conducting Training
4. Mapping in the field with Field Papers
5. Grading & Quality Control

The first three step should be common to all assignment workflows, whether the mapping exercise takes place in a traditional classroom setting, or not. Step 4 depends on whether there is a local field mapping component possible/expected, and step 5 suggests approaches for grading in a traditional classroom setting. 

Following these steps should prepare you well in developing, assigning and training your class.